## 1000 - 900 BBM
Lost to time ancient people lived rather normal lives. This era of the world includes the first tastes of magic mostly agricultural based to help out here and there. Monsters have yet to be a problem as magic is still at its infancy. Settlements only consisted of minor collections of people living in what is now [[The Wilds]].

After sometime Magic users became more and more common going into more and more niche things. Magic Lineages started to begin and people without magic were starting be treated lesser.

## 950 - 800 BBM
Mages started to create constructs during this time to help guard what little they had to protect. The rise of factions around powerful mages started to appear causing little struggles to appear, most of the time to the horror of non-magic users.

Non-magic users during this time where either subject to harsh conditions or even sometimes treated as lesser.

With the rise of constructs the world shifted as some mages only focused on that. While Necromancy has yet to be seen the seeds of the practice begin with one person, [[Ailbhe Dubthach]], willing to break the balance between life and death to bring back someone she cared about.

## 752 BBM
Ailbhe creates the first undead creature. 
Unable to control it, the creature goes on a rampage converting others into a undead form.

## 752 - 650 BBM
Many cities came together to stop the outbreak and protect the citizens that they had. Luckily the outbreak was stopped by kingdoms coming together and vanquishing what the threat that was the undead outbreak.

## 760 - 500 BBM
Many of these kingdoms sought to understand how to harvest this magic for themselves for if the time came.

Magic during this time went haywire as the weights of life and death where unbalanced. After the 100 years war to stop the outbreak, magic was never the same and thus the monsters seen in [[The Wilds]] started to appear.

Kingdoms continued to study other forms of magic along with some kings to try to find the way to prolong their life above what the body was capable.